cypress/README.md, before:

# E2E Test Development Standards

This document defines the standards and best practices to be followed for developing E2E tests using Cypress in our project.

## Table of Contents

- [Naming `data-testid`](#naming-data-testid)
- [Naming Test Files](#naming-test-files)
- [Using CSS Selectors in Tests](#using-css-selectors-in-tests)
- [Using `e2mock` to Mock Components](#using-e2mock-to-mock-components)
- [Generating Names for Dynamic Entities](#generating-names-for-dynamic-entities)
- [Validating Toasts](#validating-toasts)

## Naming `data-testid`

To ensure consistency and ease of maintenance for tests, we use the following structure for `data-testid` attributes:

```bash
<location>__<element-name>__<element-type>
```

Examples::
- `list-table-block__column__name__row`
- `header__button__submit`

**Notes:**
- Use hyphens (`-`) to separate words within each part of the identifier.
- Avoid abbreviations that are not widely known.

## Naming Test Files

Test files should follow a consistent naming pattern. Use hyphens (`-`) as word separators.

Example:
- `login-page.spec.js`
- `user-profile.spec.js`

## Using CSS Selectors in Tests

### Specific vs. Generic Selectors

- Prefer specific selectors for tests (`data-testid`) over generic selectors to ensure tests are less susceptible to breaking due to layout changes.    

### Use of Classes and IDs

- Use classes and IDs only when necessary. Classes should be used for styling, and IDs for unique elements.

### Selector Priority

1. `data-testid`
2. `IDs` (when the element is unique)
3. `Classes` (when the element has a specific style)
4. `HTML Elements` (only when other selectors are not applicable)

## Using `e2mock` to Mock Components

### Use Cases

Use `e2mock` to mock components and external services during tests, ensuring that tests are consistent and independent of external factors.

### Implications

- Ensure mocks reflect the real expected behavior of the components to avoid false positives in tests.
- **Practical criterion**: Tests should be able to run and pass locally, even without internet access (e.g., Wi-Fi turned off). This ensures that tests are truly independent of external factors and are using mocks correctly.

## Generating Names for Dynamic Entities

To ensure consistency and avoid conflicts, use the `generateUniqueName` function located in the `support/utils.js` folder for generating names for dynamic entities, such as IDs and usernames, in tests.

### Example Usage

The `generateUniqueName` function generates unique names with a formatted timestamp. See the implementation below:

```javascript
import generateUniqueName from '../support/utils';

const userName = generateUniqueName('username');
```

## Validating Toasts

To validate toasts (notifications) in tests:

- Verify the presence and content of toasts.
- Ensure toasts disappear after the expected time.

Example:

```javascript
cy.get('[data-testid="toast"]').should('be.visible').and('contain', 'Success message')
cy.get('[data-testid="toast"]').should('not.exist')
```

Commit message:

docs: document verifyToast custom command

cypress/README.md, after:

# E2E Test Development Standards

This document defines the standards and best practices to be followed for developing E2E tests using Cypress in our project.

## Table of Contents

- [Naming `data-testid`](#naming-data-testid)
- [Naming Test Files](#naming-test-files)
- [Using CSS Selectors in Tests](#using-css-selectors-in-tests)
- [Using `e2mock` to Mock Components](#using-e2mock-to-mock-components)
- [Generating Names for Dynamic Entities](#generating-names-for-dynamic-entities)
- [Validating Toasts](#validating-toasts)

## Naming `data-testid`

To ensure consistency and ease of maintenance for tests, we use the following structure for `data-testid` attributes:

```bash
<location>__<element-name>__<element-type>
```

Examples::
- `list-table-block__column__name__row`
- `header__button__submit`

**Notes:**
- Use hyphens (`-`) to separate words within each part of the identifier.
- Avoid abbreviations that are not widely known.

## Naming Test Files

Test files should follow a consistent naming pattern. Use hyphens (`-`) as word separators.

Example:
- `login-page.spec.js`
- `user-profile.spec.js`

## Using CSS Selectors in Tests

### Specific vs. Generic Selectors

- Prefer specific selectors for tests (`data-testid`) over generic selectors to ensure tests are less susceptible to breaking due to layout changes.    

### Use of Classes and IDs

- Use classes and IDs only when necessary. Classes should be used for styling, and IDs for unique elements.

### Selector Priority

1. `data-testid`
2. `IDs` (when the element is unique)
3. `Classes` (when the element has a specific style)
4. `HTML Elements` (only when other selectors are not applicable)

## Using `e2mock` to Mock Components

### Use Cases

Use `e2mock` to mock components and external services during tests, ensuring that tests are consistent and independent of external factors.

### Implications

- Ensure mocks reflect the real expected behavior of the components to avoid false positives in tests.
- **Practical criterion**: Tests should be able to run and pass locally, even without internet access (e.g., Wi-Fi turned off). This ensures that tests are truly independent of external factors and are using mocks correctly.

## Generating Names for Dynamic Entities

To ensure consistency and avoid conflicts, use the `generateUniqueName` function located in the `support/utils.js` folder for generating names for dynamic entities, such as IDs and usernames, in tests.

### Example Usage

The `generateUniqueName` function generates unique names with a formatted timestamp. See the implementation below:

```javascript
import generateUniqueName from '../support/utils';

const userName = generateUniqueName('username');
```

## Validating Toasts

To validate toasts (notifications) in tests:

- Execute the custom command `verifyToast()`.

> Note: the command receives the whole text string of the toast as an argument. 

Example:

```javascript
cy.verifyToast('Success!')
```
